# PheWAS Module

It is recommended to run the demo example above and have a look at the example cohort and phecode counts file to 
be familiar with the input data format. The example files should be generated in users' current working directory.

PheWAS class is instantiated with paths to csv/tsv files of cohort data and phecode counts data,
in addition to other parameters as shown in the examples below.
It can be used in both Linux command line interface (CLI) and any Python environment, e.g., 
Jupyter Notebook/Lab.

In these examples, we would like to run PheWAS with phecodeX, for example, data generated by demo module, 
with age, sex and 3 genetic PCs as covariates, and an independent variable of interest 
(for which PheWAS summary statistics will be generated).
For each phecode, a participant must have a minimum count of 2 phecode events to be considered a case.
There must be at least 50 cases and 50 controls for the phecode to be tested.

## CLI example:
```bash
python3 -m PheTK.PheWAS \
--phecode_version X \
--cohort_file_path example_cohort.tsv \
--phecode_count_file_path example_phecode_counts.tsv \
--sex_at_birth_col sex \
--male_as_one True \
--covariates age sex pc1 pc2 pc3 \
--independent_variable_of_interest independent_variable_of_interest \
--min_case 50 \
--min_phecode_count 2 \
--output_file_name example_phewas_results.tsv
```

## Jupyter Notebook example:
```python
from PheTK.PheWAS import PheWAS

example_phewas = PheWAS(
    phecode_version="X",
    phecode_count_file_path="example_phecode_counts.tsv",
    cohort_file_path="example_cohort.tsv",
    sex_at_birth_col="sex",
    male_as_one=True,
    covariate_cols=["age", "sex", "pc1", "pc2", "pc3"],
    independent_variable_of_interest="independent_variable_of_interest",
    min_cases=50,
    min_phecode_count=2,
    output_file_name="example_phewas_results.tsv"
)
example_phewas.run()
```

## Important Notes:
- Each entry in the sex_at_birth column should be either 0 or 1 for female or male. The default is male = 1 and female = 0.
- User can use male_as_one to specify where male was coded as 1 (male_as_one=True) or 0 (male_as_one=False).
- In the above example, the "sex" column was declared twice, once in sex_at_birth_col and once in covariate_cols.
sex_at_birth_col is always required as certain phecodes are sex restricted.
If users would like to use sex as a covariate, the sex column must be included in covariate_cols. 
- PheWAS results often include both converged and non-converged phecodes. 
This was intentional, as there can be multiple factors affecting regression model convergence. 
Therefore, non_converged phecodes are kept and flagged using `converged` column to allow users to do further investigation if needed. 

## Get cohort data of a phecode
Method `.get_phecode_data()` can be used to get cohort data for a phecode of interest.
A common use case is to look at input data of certain phecodes after a PheWAS run.

In addition to the existing columns, e.g., person_id, covariates, etc., from input data, 
the generated table has `is_phecode_case` boolean column to specify whether an individual is a case or control for that phecode.

For example, after creating a PheWAS class instance as in the above example, 
user can call `.get_phecode_data()` method as below:
```python
# get cohort data for phecode "R05.1"
example_phewas.get_phecode_data("R05.1")
```